---
layout: default
title: About
---

Behind the pseudonym rioki is Sean Farrell. 

Bio 
--- 

<img src="/images/sean_farrell.jpg" alt="Sean Farrell" align="left" />

I was born in Phoenix, Arizona, USA on the 17th of October 1982. My 
mother is German and my Father is US-American. This makes me 
German-American, American-German or whatever. 

My parents decided to move to Toulouse, France as I was 1 year old. I 
grew up mostly in France. My parents divorced, as I was about 10 and my 
Father moved to Austin, Texas, USA. This had the result that I spent 
most of my summer vacations in Austin. 

In the last years in Toulouse I started my first company. I was 
specialized in web-applications development. It was work along side 
school and so was not so much, but definitely a healthy pocket money. 

I went to the German School of Toulouse and graduated there in 2003. 
With my "Abitur" in the pocket I looked for a place in a 
"Berufsakademie" (University of Cooperative Education) in Germany. This 
decision was made, because the BA is a very practical oriented and I 
definitely did not want to waste my time with theoretical studies. 

I ended up making my studies in Karlsruhe at the BA-Karlsruhe and with 
the Bundesanstalt f√ºr Wasserbau" (Federal Waterway Engineering and 
Research Institute). There I worked on different projects. I stated 
administrating a high performance cluster, that was used for Fluid 
Computational Dynamics (CFD). I finally worked on a chain of tools based 
abound the extension of NaSt3DGPF, a CFD solver. For my Diploma Thesis I 
wrote a fully fledged graphical editor, that was used to create CFD 
models for NaSt3DGPF. 

The German government has the policy that every government agency has to 
reduce their manpower of 3% every year, if it makes sense or not. But on 
the other hand they have to have at least 5% of the jobs must be 
apprenticeships. So in the interview I was told: "We can't employ you 
when you are done." That was fine with me. But it meant that I had to 
look for an other job. I ended up being employed by Ferchau, a temp 
agency that specialized in engineering. I stated working for Siemens on 
the software SIMATIC PDM. 

I got employed by Siemens in April 2009 and continued working on SIAMTIC 
PDM. I specialized on compiler and virtual machine construction, 
especially for the EDDL. SIMATIC PDM finally shipped in the end of 2010. 
After internal reshuffling of people I ended up working on WinCC V11 for 
the TIA Portal. Origin of the Name Rioki 

Rio-Oh-Ki 
--------- 

<img src="/images/ryoohki.png" alt="Rio-Oh-Ki" align="right" />

I used to be a extreme Anime fan. I gobbled up everything that resembled 
Anime. Now it is not as bad as it was then, but I am still a fan. 

Well I needed a user name at some point. I liked Rio-Oh-Ki from Tenchi 
Muyo and though up Rioki as a similar sounding user name. 

Rio-Oh-Ki is actually a space ship. But in its idle shape (most of the 
time) it is a bunny / cat creature that likes carrots. It can convert to 
the space ship form on demand; when ever need arises... 

